the hairbow center presents how to wrap
a headband and ribbon supplies used in
this video demonstration can be found at
wwr bow center comm I will be wrapping a
half inch clear plastic headband in 3/8
inch printed ribbon and then top it off
with a cute little crochet hair flower
to begin with I'm cutting two pieces of
ribbon and about an inch and a half in
length and I will heat seal those pieces
and we'll we will use those to wrap the
ends of the headband let's go ahead and
grab the double-sided tape I'm simply
going to put a piece on the back of each
of these small pieces of ribbon
peel off the paper backing and we'll go
ahead and apply it to the ends of the
headband okay we'll go ahead with a
double sided tape and starting on one
end you will go ahead and apply it on
the inside of the headband all the way
to the other side
go ahead and press that tape down good
make sure that we have a good hold I
will go ahead and heat seal the end of
my cow print ribbon will peel back a
little bit of the backing but we're not
gonna go ahead and take it all off at
this time that way we don't have a
problem of sticking to everything in the
process then apply the end at a diagonal
at the end of the inside of the headband
and now we'll start wrapping
keep your ribbon at an angle as you go
around the headband and as you come
around the back inside just go ahead and
push down a little bit as you go and
that will keep all your ribbon in place
as you're working and also when you're
finished if you'd like to go ahead and
measure out your ribbon piece before you
begin so it's not connected to the reel
I generally recommend about forty three
inches
it's definitely better to have too much
than too little so you don't get to the
end of your headband and realize you
have to start over
okay I'm finishing wrapping the headband
and as I get to the end here turns out
we had just the right amount of ribbon
and I will go ahead and wrap that final
piece around and lay it down flat now if
you do have extra here this is where you
would go ahead and trim it and if you
trim it then you'll go I also have to
need a heat seal it as well
as we use a 3/8 inch with ribbon on the
bottoms of the headband and the headband
is actually a half inch and width there
is a slight amount of headband showing
on the ends and so we'll go ahead and
take another small piece of ribbon and
we'll use the double-sided tape on that
to go ahead and wrap the ends to
completely cover up all the the headband
this showing we always heat seal our
ribbon ends to keep them from frame
start on the backside of the headband
again we'll just press the end down wrap
it around
compress the other end down on top
though the first end will do that on
both sides and we now have a completed
ribbon lined headband
going to go ahead and grab a small felt
circle here and we will be attaching
that to the back of the crochet flower
and then adhering it with one of our
small three-quarter inch round adhesive
dots I'm attaching the adhesive dot
directly to the felt circle peeling off
the backing and sticking it to the
center back of my crochet flower
now as the adhesive dot is 3/4 inch and
my headband is only 1/2 inch I'm not
going to use another dot to adhere the
flower to the headband because the glue
would stick out slightly on the edges
and it is a very sticky adhesive and
would probably get stuck in somebody's
hair so I'm going to go ahead and
instead use a small little strip of our
adhesive tape again
feel about backing off of that tape and
go ahead and apply it drop weight to the
headband
simply stick it on and give it a squeeze
and you have an instant adhesion this
tape actually does cure for around 24
hours and so your strongest bond will
take about a day to achieve its maximum
hold we have a completed handmade
hairpiece made in a matter of minutes